---
layout: page
title:  "Research"
---

GovConnect is currently conducting primary research based on the participants and
outcomes of the pilot and mentor agencies.  

This research has two goals. First, it will provide agencies involved with GovConnect best practices, pitfall warnings, and areas of opportunities for program improvement in Phase II. Second, it will provide agencies considering developing agile workforce approaches with a “Quick Start Guide” to help them launch. As part of this evaluation the research will also provide information on a variety of technology enablers that may be considered for GovConnect Phase II cross-agency pilots.

Having these practices in place will increase the probability that agencies will be successful in using agile workforce approaches. We believe increased adoption of these agile approaches will engage, empower and equip the 2.7 million federal employees to provide a significantly higher level of service to the American people.

**Research Goals**
==================

GovConnect is evaluating the efforts of federal agencies to encourage
agile workforce approaches to engaging talent; with a special focus on
lessons learned from three specific workforce agility models being
tested in GovConnect Phase I pilot agencies. This evaluation has two
goals. First, it will provide agencies involved with GovConnect best
practices, pitfall warnings, and areas of opportunities for program
improvement in Phase II. Second, it will provide agencies considering
developing agile workforce approaches with a “Quick Start Guide” to help
them launch. As part of this evaluation the research will also provide
information on a variety of technology enablers that may be considered
for GovConnect Phase II cross-agency pilots.

Having these practices in place will increase the probability that
agencies will be successful in using agile workforce approaches. We
believe increased adoption of these agile approaches will engage,
empower and equip the 2.7 million federal employees to provide a
significantly higher level of service to the American people.

Problem statements
==================

The most pressing challenges we face as a society are best addressed
through collaboration across government and sectors (i.e., economic
crises, managing healthcare, alleviating poverty, etc.).**However, our
current government model was designed for a different kind of work and
predates advancements in technology and management practices.** The
federal government needs a forward-thinking strategy and technological
capability (GovConnect) to build a 21st century civil service system
that can better handle cross-agency program and policy challenges.
GovConnect will help agencies create a “sharing economy” to connect the
federal workforce and deploy skills and expertise from across the
government to where they are needed, when needed.

*Reference: PMA GovConnect Proposal and Plan.pdf*

Digging deeper into the problem space of GovConnect, a major issue of
the government workforce is to effectively deploying talent and closing
critical skills gaps; agencies’ ability to meet their vital missions is
undermined

*Reference: The Pipeline Problem*

Related Issues Include:

-   Attracting, developing and retaining strong professional talent

-   Transfer valuable knowledge of a retiring workforce

<!-- -->

-   Efficiently, and effectively, prevent and address America’s most
    > significant concerns in a timely fashion

Assumptions to test
-------------------

-   Federal employees are willing to participate in additional projects or activities that they are passionate about and/or are complementary to their skill-sets.

-   Federal managers are willing to support their staff’s participation in projects in a different part of their agency or in a different agency.

-   Federal managers are willing to adopt an entrepreneurial approach to developing teams from across their agencies or from other agencies to get their critical work done.

-   A “bottom-up” approach where employees are empowered to start projects and initiatives, find collaborators, and garner agency/department support increases employee engagement.

-   A “top-down” approach where managers garner support for projects, then open them to employees to participate, is in the interest of federal employees.

-   Federal employees, with a GovConnect-like culture, can be more engaged and effective than their colleagues in traditional federal culture.

-   Federal employees are able to broaden their professional networks through one or more of the GovConnect models.

-   Federal managers are able to reduce skills gaps through one or more of the GovConnect models.

-   Engagement can be measured through surveys (including specific EVS questions) and employee interviews. Effectiveness can be measured by the number of innovative projects undertaken, the quality and/or speed at which they are completed, the diversity of the team participating (including field vs. headquarters employees), and the level of participation.

User profiles
=============

*Pilot Coordinators*

Pilot Coordinators are the leaders of an experimental GovConnect pilot
program at a specific agency that volunteered for GovConnect Phase I.
They are the central point of contact for an internal agency design team
spearheading the effort and attempting to get other agency employees
engaged and participating in the pilot program. Their main resource for
guidance are the GovConnect program managers and their assigned
Mentor(s).

*Pilot Participants*

Agency employees that have elected to participate in the GovConnect
pilot that their parent agency is putting into place. The employee is
either actively working on a project of their own with other employees,
or helping out on a project lead by another employee or manager.

*Pilot Mentors*

Mentors have successfully, or unsuccessfully, designed and implemented a
pilot or an established program that is similar to what GovConnect is
attempting to accomplish. Some of the established programs currently
operating today within agencies have become a part of the agency’s
organizational culture, while some of the pilot programs have yet to be
adopted. These mentors provide guidance and support to Pilot
Coordinators as they are getting their pilot programs up and running.

*High Level Stakeholders*

There are several stakeholders at other agencies that are interested in
participating in the GovConnect initiative. These agencies don’t have
formal pilots in place and maybe just in the initial planning stages.
These stakeholders are often influential in the decision to launch a
pilot, and may have high level input into the design, such as choice of
pilot model. The information we hope to gather from them includes their
hopes and needs for having a pilot, and what barriers they might be
experiencing getting their pilot off the ground.

*External Program Managers*

Initiatives like GovConnect have been put in place in many organizations
outside of the federal government. The program managers for these
programs take care of the day to day needs and ensure there is a healthy
amount of participation in the program across the organization.

Methods
=======

Participants and recruitment
----------------------------

We will recruit **government employees** through

-   Pilot Coordinators

-   Pilot Mentors

-   Email Requests

-   [*Ethnio*](https://ethn.io/) (online recruitment tool) via Pilot’s
    > Digital Platform (if available)

We will aim for **diversity of agencies** and **technical expertise **

We will recruit **external companies for shadowing** through

-   *Email Requests*

-   *Contact Form Submissions*

-   *Stakeholder Relationships*

Activities
----------

### Survey of Pilot Users

Existing users of the various pilots will be surveyed to determine the
general thoughts of the pilot programs. This survey will also aim to
determine how an employee feels about their work efforts after they have
participated in the pilot program.

### Private Sector and Non-profit Benchmarks

Agile workforce approaches have become common outside of government. A
list of private sector and nonprofit firms that use agile approaches
will be developed, and representative firms will be contacted about
potentially shadowing or demoing their programs to the project team. The
goal here is to learn what has been successful for others that live
outside of the normal constraints of the government.

*Targeted Firms*

-   *AT&T - Foundry*

-   *IBM - THINKLab*

-   *Thomson Reuters - Catalyst Fund*

-   *Summit Public Schools - Innovation Cycle*

-   *Dell - Idea Storm*

-   *Detroit Soup*

-   *NPR - Serendipity Days*

-   *Wells Fargo Advisors*

-   *Lockheed Martin*

-   *Mattel*

Other Firms Not Included in Research

-   *Nasa - SSERVI*

-   *Hasbro Toy*

-   *Rite-Solutions - Rire-Track*

-   *Liberty Bank*

-   *Phillips - SimplyInnovate*

-   *Salesforce - Chatter*

-   *Baker Hughes*

-   *Atlassian*

-   *Symantex*

-   *Deloitte*

-   *3M*

-   *Johnson & Johnson*

### Contextual Inquiry of Mentor, High Level Stakeholder, & Pilot Agencies

People who have been identified as mentors, high level stakeholders, or
pilot users will be interviewed in a one-to-one style to gain a deeper
understanding of what GovConnect means to them and how participating in
the planning or implementation of a GovConnect pilot has impacted their
professional life. The outcome of these interviews will inform the final
recommendations of best practices and next steps for GovConnect.

Private Sector and Nonprofit Benchmarks

### Getting acquainted 

Participants will describe what they do and their background.

### Program Overview

Participants will talk the researcher through what the collaboration
program is and how it’s used by the firm.

### Solution Evaluation 

We will ask the participants to provide background and shared
experiences from managing or using their company's collaboration
program. The focus will be on what worked, what didn’t, and how the
program has evolved since it was put in place.

Questions and methods
---------------------

1.  What’s the name of the program and what did you hope to accomplish with it?

2.  How did you program come about? What’s the history?

3.  What goals did you set for your program? What problems were you trying to solve?

4.  How did you build support for your program internally?

5.  What do you feel is working really well with your program?

6.  What simply didn’t work with your program initially that you had to change or remove from the program?

7.  What kind of roadblocks did you experience trying to put the program in place?

8.  What tactics did you use to get past these roadblocks?

9.  What are the biggest struggles you’ve had since starting the program?

10. What would you have done different during the initial phases of your program?

11. What did you track to determine success and failures?

12. What are some success stories from your program?

Personnel
---------

Lead: Brad Nunnally

Support: Note Taker from 18f or GovConnect Team Member

Resources required
------------------

*Teleconference*

*Google Hangout*

Schedule
--------

  **Dates**   **Location**                       **Method**
  ----------- ---------------------------------- ------------------------
  7/27/2015   *Remote & On-Site (Potentially)*   *One-on-One Interview*

Anticipated outcomes
--------------------

1.  Learn from an enterprise point of view on what has made their program a success

2.  Learn what it’s been like to start, or manage, a program within their enterprise

3.  Hear how external companies track the success of their programs and how they have grown since the program's inception

Pilot Mentor Interviews

### Getting acquainted 

Participants will describe what they do and their background.

### Program Overview

Participants will talk the researcher through what the pilot and/or
established program is, why it was selected by the agency, special
considerations that factored into designing and implementing it tailored
for their organizational culture and how, it’s used by the agency .
Participants will also discuss whether or not the program has been
adopted into their agency’s organizational culture and why or why not

### Solution Evaluation 

We will ask the participants to provide background and shared
experiences from managing or using their agency’s pilot or established
program. The focus will be on what worked, what didn’t, and how the
program has evolved since it was put in place.

Questions and methods
---------------------

*Opening Questions*

1.  In your own words, what is GovConnect?

2.  What’s it been like being a mentor for other agencies? What agencies did you mentor?

3.  How has the experience been for you?

*Mentor’s Program Information*

1.  What’s the name of your program and what did you hope to accomplish with it? What problem were you trying to solve?

2.  How did you get started? When did you start planning it?

3.  How did you sell the idea of the program to the higher ups?

4.  What kind of resistance did you experience from others? Why were they resistant?

5.  What tactics did you use to get past any resistance?

6.  How did participation levels change over time? Why did they increase or decrease overtime? Why were there changes?

7.  What did you track to determine if your program was a success?

8.  What metrics did you track to determine employee engagement? How did you collect these metrics?

9.  What are some success stories from your program? Why were these a success?

10. What would you have done different during the initial phases of your program?

*Being a Mentor*

1.  How did you develop your relationship with your partner agency? How did your engagement with the partner agency flow?

2.  What are the common mistakes or issues that other pilots experienced from your point of view?

3.  What have you learned since becoming a mentor to other pilots?

4.  If you could would you mentor an agency again? Why?

5.  What would you recommend to new mentors entering the program?

6.  During your mentoring experience, have you become more aware of other agencies, state or local, that have programs that are similar to GovConnect and testing workforce agility? How did you hear about that?

7.  Which private sector programs are you aware of and would recommend we try to talk to?

Personnel
---------

Lead: Brad Nunnally

Support: Note Taker from 18f or GovConnect Team

Resources required
------------------

*Teleconference Line*

*Google Hangout*

Schedule
--------

  **Dates**   **Location**                       **Method**
  ----------- ---------------------------------- ------------------------
  7/20/2015   *Remote & On-Site (Potentially)*   *One-on-One Interview*

Anticipated outcomes
--------------------

1.  Learn from the mentor’s point of view on what made their program a success, or failure

2.  Learn what it’s been like to mentor other agencies and hear about the mentor’s perspective on what has worked well and what has not for pilot agencies

3.  Hear how mentors tracked the success of their programs and how they have advised pilot agencies on tracking their success

High Level Stakeholder Interviews

### Getting acquainted 

Participants will describe what they do and their background.

### Program Overview

Participants will talk the researcher through what the pilot program is
and how it’s used by the agency.

### Solution Evaluation 

We will ask the participants to provide background and information on
why they would like to participate in a GovConnect project. The focus
will be on what they are hoping to accomplish by participating in
GovConnect and what support they need to get started.

Questions and methods
---------------------

*Opening Questions*

1.  What is your role with regards to GovConnect? Why are you interested in it?

2.  In your own words, what is GovConnect?

3.  Why do you want to be part of GovConnect?

*Hopes for GovConnect*

1.  What are you hoping GovConnect will achieve?

2.  What problems are you trying to solve by participating in GovConnect?

3.  What's the impact you are hoping to see by agencies participating in GovConnect?

*Concerns about GovConnect*

1.  From your point of view, what are the gaps for you right now for making GovConnect a success?

2.  What are the biggest struggles you’ve noticed with agencies trying to get pilots started?

3.  What would you like to see next for GovConnect and agencies who’ve started pilots?

Personnel
---------

Lead: Brad Nunnally

Support: Note Taker from 18f or GovConnect Team Member

Resources required
------------------

*Teleconference*

*Google Hangout*

Schedule
--------

  **Dates**   **Location**                       **Method**
  ----------- ---------------------------------- ------------------------
  7/27/2015   *Remote & On-Site (Potentially)*   *One-on-One Interview*

Anticipated outcomes
--------------------

1.  Learn why an agency would like to get started with a GovConnect pilot

2.  Understand what roadblocks and issues that have been preventing the agency from starting a GovConnect pilot

**STILL IN DRAFT FROM START**

Contextual Inquiry Pilot Coordinators & Users

### Getting acquainted 

Participants will describe what they do and their background.

### Program Overview

Participants will talk the researcher through what the pilot program is,
which workforce agility model the agency selected to test and why,
special considerations that factored into designing and implementing the
pilot tailored for their organizational culture and how it’s used by the
agency. If the agency has not yet launched a pilot, additional
discussion will center around why it has not launched a pilot yet
including internal and external barriers, risks and strategies to
overcome perceived barriers.

### Solution Evaluation 

We will ask the participants to provide background and shared
experiences from managing or using their agency’s pilot program. The
focus will be on what worked, what didn’t, and how the program has
evolved since it was put in place.

Questions and methods
---------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------
  Must answer   Would like to answer   If we get to it
  -----------   --------------------   ---------------
  ------------- ---------------------- -----------------
  ------------------------------------------------------

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Theme           Question                       Probe                  Method
  -----           --------                       -----                  ------
                                                                        
                                                 Tools                  
                                                 -----                  
                                                                        
                                                 Processes              
                                                 ---------              
                                                                        
                                                 Emotions               
                                                 --------               
  --------------- ------------------------------ ---------------------- --------------------
  *Theme1*        *Question 1*                   *Area 1*               
  --------        ------------                   --------               

                   {#section-1}                  *Area 2*                {#section-1}
                                                 --------               

   {#section-2}    {#section-1}                  *Area 3*               *Method* {#method}
                                                 --------               --------

   {#section-1}   *Question 2*                    {#section-1}           {#section-2}
                  ------------                                          

   {#section-1}   *Question 3*                   *Area 1*               *Method* {#method}
                  ------------                   --------               --------

   {#section-1}   *QUestion 4*                    {#section-1}          *Method* {#method}
                  ------------                                          --------

  *Theme 2*       *Question 1*                   *Area 1*                {#section-1}
  ---------       ------------                   --------               

   {#section-2}    {#section-1}                  *Area 2* {#area-2}      {#section-1}
                                                 --------               

   {#section-2}    {#section-1}                  *Area 3* {#area-3}      {#section-1}
                                                 --------               

   {#section-2}    {#section-1}                  *Area 4*                {#section-1}
                                                 --------               

   {#section-2}   *Question 2* {#question-2}     *Area 1* {#area-1-2}    {#section-1}
                  ------------                   --------               

  *Theme 3*       *Question 1* {#question-1-1}   *Area 1* {#area-1-2}    {#section-1}
  ---------       ------------                   --------               

   {#section-2}   *Question 2* {#question-2}      {#section-1}           {#section-2}
                  ------------                                          

   {#section-1}   *Question 3* {#question-3}      {#section-1}           {#section-2}
                  ------------                                          

   {#section-1}   *Question 4* {#question-4}      {#section-1}           {#section-2}
                  ------------                                          

   {#section-1}   *Question 5*                    {#section-1}           {#section-2}
                  ------------                                          
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 {#section-1}

**STILL IN DRAFT FROM END**

Post Session Survey
-------------------

The following questions will be asked at the end of each interview
session. The participant will provide their responses on their own
without any discussion or guidance from the facilitator. The purpose the
survey is to capture some metrics around how the participant feels about
their overall employee engagement and participation.

*Engagement*

How has your level of collaboration with your co-workers has changed
since becoming involved with your GovConnect pilot?

1.  Much better

2.  Somewhat better

3.  Stayed the same

4.  Somewhat worse

5.  Much worse

How do you feel your engagement as a federal employee has changed after
participating in your GovConnect pilot?

1.  Much higher

2.  Higher

3.  About the same

4.  Lower

5.  Much lower

*Professional Development*

To what degree has your professional skills grown while participating in
your GovConnect pilot program?

1.  Much higher

2.  Higher

3.  About the same

4.  Lower

5.  Much lower

*Encouragement*

How more accomplished to do you feel at your job having participated in
your GovConnect pilot?

1.  Very High

2.  Above Average

3.  Average

4.  Below Average

5.  Very Low

Do you feel more encouraged to participate in side projects and internal
initiatives after your involvement with your GovConnect pilot?

1.  Much higher

2.  Higher

3.  About the same

4.  Lower

5.  Much lower

*Overall Thoughts*

How likely are you to share your experiences about your GovConnect pilot
with your fellow employees?

1.  Definitely

2.  Very Probably

3.  Probably

4.  Possibly

5.  Probably Not

6.  Definitely Not

How has the importance of your role as a federal employee changed having
participated in your GovConnect pilot?

1.  Very important

2.  Important

3.  Fairly important

4.  Slightly important

5.  Not important

Personnel
---------

Lead: Brad Nunnally

Support: Note Taker from 18f or OPM

Resources required
------------------

*Resource 1*

*Resource 2*

Schedule
--------

  **Recruitment**   **Workplace visits**   **Analysis**
  ----------------- ---------------------- --------------
  Start *Date*      *Location*             *Method*

Anticipated outcomes
--------------------

*Outcome 1*

*Outcome 2*

*Outcome 3*

Limitations
===========

Location Logistics
------------------

The interviews with the Pilot Agency users will be have to be a mix of
remote and in-person. There is a limited budget for travel, so the
in-person interviews will need to be scheduled in sequential order to
justify the cost.

Timeline
--------

The project has a hard stop at the end of September due to the end of
the fiscal year. All work and reports need to be complete by this date.
The reports need to reviewed and approved by OPM Stakeholders.

Budget
======

Travel - \$15,000

Hours - 492.8

Hours in \$ - \$84,762

